Add blog post announcing actual dockershim removal (#30972)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-01-03-kubernetes-is-moving-on-from-dockershim.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes is moving on from Dockershim: commitments and next steps"
date: 2022-01-03
slug: kubernetes-is-moving-on-from-dockershim
---

**Authors:** Sergey Kanzhelev (Google), Jim Angel (Google), Davanum Srinivas (VMware), Shannon Kularathna (Google), Chris Short (AWS), Dawn Chen (Google)

Kubernetes is removing dockershim in the upcoming v1.24 release. We're excited
to reaffirm our community values by supporting open source container runtimes,

> enablin a smaller kubelet, and faster engineering velocity for teams using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enable a smaller kubelet, and increase engineering velocity for teams using
```

Kubernetes. If you [use Docker Engine as a Container Runtime](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/migrating-from-dockershim/find-out-runtime-you-use/)
for your Kubernetes cluster, get ready to migrate to 1.24! To check if you're
affected, refer to [Check whether dockershim deprecation affects you](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/migrating-from-dockershim/check-if-dockershim-deprecation-affects-you/).

## Why we’re moving away from dockershim

Docker was the first container runtime used by Kubernetes. This is one of the
reasons why Docker is so familiar to many Kubernetes users and enthusiasts.

> Later, we wanted to support other container runtimes. Today, Kubernetes uses the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As containerization became an industry standard, the Kubernetes project added support 
for additional runtimes. This culminated with the implementation of the
```

> container runtime interface (CRI) to let system components (like the kubelet)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
container runtime interface (CRI), letting system components (like the kubelet)
```

> talk to container runtimes. That original, baked in support for Docker turned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
talk to container runtimes in a standardized way. As a result, the hardcoded support for Docker –
a component the project refers to as dockershim – became an anomaly in the Kubernetes project.
```

> into the component we call dockershim. It was built into Kubernetes code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Removing dockershim from Kubernetes inevitably affects the entire CNCF family of projects beyond
> Kubernetes. Dependencies on Docker and dockershim have crept into various tools
> and projects in the Kubernetes ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dependencies on Docker and dockershim have crept into various tools
and projects in the CNCF ecosystem ecosystem, resulting in fragile code.
```

> There are a few container runtimes today that are often lighter, faster, and
> more secure than when Docker Engine was the only choice. By removing the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By removing the
```
Seriously, just don't - I would leave any explanation to further blog posts.

dockershim CRI, we're embracing the first value of CNCF: "[Fast is better than
slow](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/charter.md#3-values)".

> There are a number of technical, historical, and community-oriented reasons why
> we think this is the best move for the Kubernetes project that we'll explore in
> detail in a future post. Stay tuned for future communications on the topic!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stay tuned for future communications on the topic!
```

Your conclusion with the first value of CNCF is _way_ stronger by removing this sentence!

## Deprecation timeline

We [formally announced](/blog/2020/12/08/kubernetes-1-20-release-announcement/) the dockershim deprecation in December 2020.  Full removal is targeted
in Kubernetes 1.24, in April 2022. This timeline
aligns with our [deprecation policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/#deprecating-a-feature-or-behavior),
which states that deprecated behaviors must function for at least 1 year

> after their announced deprecation. We'll support Kubernetes version 1.23, which includes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
after their announced deprecation. 

We'll support Kubernetes version 1.23, which includes
```

(new paragraph)

> dockershim, for another year in the Kubernetes project (with managed
> Kubernetes providers, vendor support is likely to last even longer). You'll have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dockershim, for another year in the Kubernetes project. Managed
Kubernetes providers, vendor support is likely to last even longer, but this is 
dependent on the companies themselves. Regarldess, we're confident all cluster operations will have
```
